[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So
we already covered this point.
switchLatest and takeUntil are why I
don't unsubscribe from Events ever.
I never call or removeEventListener and
I haven't in five years.
My code isn't littered with memory leaks
because I do takeUntil and switchLatest.
It turns out,
that's pretty much all you need.
So let's take a look at another example.
This is where things
get particularly sexy.
If we look at the Mouse Drags example,
we're just composing together events,
right?
But I already told you, UIs are made up
of usually three asynchronous actions.
Events followed by an asynchronous
request, to a network for example,
and then finally ending with an animation.
So let's do something just
a little more interesting.
And let's use Observable to combine
together events and asynchronous requests.
So who's built an autocomplete box,
sorry I've got a question back there.
>> Speaker 2: Can you filter ahead of
time and ignore the empty observable?
>> Jafar Husain: Well, ahead of time
implies that there is some sort of,
that you can look ahead.
You can't.
With an observable,
you can only get data when it arrives.
You have no notion of what's
coming down the pipe.
Much as when you subscribe
to a mouse move.
You don't know when the next
mouse's gonna arrive,
there is no look ahead with an observable.
There's only the right now, right?
I just threw a piece of cake at her.
She can't look ahead and
see that I have no more cake left over or
I have 15 more slices.
There's no way of knowing that.
So there is no look ahead.
So basically, the switchLatest operator
has to get an observable, and then because
it doesn't know that it's empty, and
it won't know at all until it for eaches,
it doesn't try and
figure out that it was empty.
What it does is, as soon as it gets a new
inner observable, it stopped listening to
the current inner observable by
calling subscription.dispose.
So you can't look ahead with
an observable, there's no foresight.
Can't see into the future, right,
cuz it's a collection over time.
Much the same way you
can't see in the future,
you do not know what
an observable will give you.
So who's written
an autocomplete box before?
>> Jafar Husain: Anybody
find it really easy?
Was it hard?
I mean write it from scratch,
not just use a component.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH] Somebody used
a component, that's great.
If you write it from scratch, it's one of
those problems that seems like it's gonna
be really easy, and you're gonna go
home at 5 o'clock, and you don't.
It's surprisingly hard.
And it's everywhere on the web.
Why would it be so
hard to write an autocomplete box,
does anybody got an idea?
>> Jafar Husain: There's a reason
why people make components so
they don't have to keep solving this.
>> Speaker 3: Race,
there's a race between the inputs.
>> Jafar Husain: There's a race condition.
The race condition is, I type A,
I'm in a Netflix search and I type A and
then we go off and we send a network
request for all the search results for A.
And then I type B, and
then we send a network request for
all the search results for AB.
Is there any guarantee at all
that the request I sent for
A will come back before
the request I sent for AB?
No, networks, shit happens, right?
So it can come back in
any particular order.
So I might end up getting the request for
AB back before the request for
A and then showing the old
data on top of the new data.
Does that make sense?
So how do we prevent that from happening?
>> Speaker 4: switchLatest.
>> Jafar Husain: switchLatest,
this guy's on the ball.
Absolutely, right?
We're gonna start to see that some
common UI patterns just fits into one
of those three strategies, right?
So how do we prevent it?
What's another problem that we might run
into with a autocomplete box that we can
only solve with a little asynchrony?
>> Jafar Husain: What
happens if I type ABCDEFG?
How many network requests
do I wanna send off?
>> Jafar Husain: ABCDEFG.
>> Speaker 5: If you Google, six.
>> Jafar Husain: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 5: I mean, Google Instant, or
whatever, you get the updated
autocomplete coming for every letter.
>> Jafar Husain: I think they probably
have at least some debounce in
there, right?
>> Speaker 5: There's some probably.
>> Jafar Husain: They
will have some debounce.
But the point here is that you probably
don't, cuz most of us aren't Google,
you probably don't want to
send off a network request for
every single key somebody types.
You wanna chill, right,
just like wait a little second,
a few milliseconds after
somebody types a key.
And then if they type no other key,
then you wanna take whatever's in the text
box and send it off as a search request.
Does that make sense?
So this is sometimes called debouncing.
Here is what an autocomplete
box looks like at Netflix.
So as we begin solving these problems,
we are gonna start describing
them in four steps.
What collections do I have?
What collection do I want?
How do I get from the collections I
have to the collection that I want?
And then,
once I've got the collection that I want,
what am I gonna do with
the data that comes out of it?
So what collections do we have when
we're building an autocomplete box?
What are the input, when I say
collections I mean observables, right.
Observables are collections.
What are the collections of events that we
have that are interesting to help us build
an autocomplete box?
>> Speaker 6: Key press?
>> Jafar Husain: Key presses, right?
That's one interesting collection.
Another one is the one created
when we make a network request.
When we call this getJSON
function that you see up here,
what we're really doing is
we're creating an observable
that will eventually onNext us the one
value of the result from the server.
And so, if you were to visualize
what that observable looked like,
it would look like .......results.
In this case,
it happens to be inside of an array.
Don't get confused the fact that an
observable happens to give you an array.
It's no different than it gives you one or
two or three.
Don't get confused about the fact
that we're handing off an array and
that happens to be a collection.
It's an observable of a value, and
that value happens to be an array.
So the way this works is,
well, actually technically,
getJSON will return you a string I think,
and well, yeah,
a string in this particular case or a JSON
object whatever that JSON object is.
All right, so
getJSON returns an observable and
it's the result of whatever we get
back from the server parsed as JSON.
Does that make sense?
At that URL.
So it's an observable
with one value in it.
Does that seem weird to anybody?
That I create an observable
with just one value in it?
>> Jafar Husain: Nobody?
Collections have one value, right?
You can create an array with one value,
nothing weird about that.
You can have an observable with one value.
And so, again, if you were to use,
visualizing that syntax we made up for
what that getJSON observable, just
the getJSON observable would look like.
It would look like ......JSON object and
then onComplete it.
So it'll onNext you and
then immediately onComplete.
Cuz it's only got the one value.
So, what are we doing here?
We're taking the key presses and then
we're using this handy throttle method.
And the throttle method is very simple.
It takes an observable that looks
like ABC DEF and turns it into CF.
It takes any items that come very, very
close together and it just drops them and
gets the last one.
So the idea here is,
if you get an item in the observable,
right, instead of immediately returning
that observable, the throttle
operator will wait a couple milliseconds
and see if another item arrives.
And if another item arrives,
it just drops the other item.
And then it takes the new item,
waits a couple of milliseconds.
And if a couple of milliseconds go by,
in this case 250 of them, and
no other items have arrived,
then only then does it take that and
forward it along to whoever's listening.
So that's why it turns ABC DEF into CF.
Does that make sense?
So now we've solved the problem of issuing
seven network requests when somebody
types ABCDEF, right?
So that's how we solve that problem.
Now we just have a less chatty stream.
So we're gonna take each
one of those key objects,
we don't care about those key events.
We're just gonna map and
map is all about substitution.
It's all about replacing something
in the stream with something else.
And we are gonna map it and return the
observable we get from calling getJSON.
So we're gonna take this flat
stream of key presses and
turn it into a two-dimensional observable.
Because each one of those key events is
gonna get replaced with an observable that
represents the network
request to the server.
Now remember, it's an observable
of one but it's still observable.
So now we have an observable
of observables.
Because for every key press,
we're creating an observable and
substituting it in that
represents the network request.
For every key press,
we're substituting in an observable
that represents the network request.
So now that we've got a two-dimensional
observable, we've gotta flatten it.
And we've gotta flatten it so that we
solve the race condition problem, right?
So here's how we can do that.
I'm gonna talk about the retry
operator in just a moment,
but notice what we're
doing here with takeUntil.
I've got a network request and
it's out for A, right?
I've created my network request for A.
And then I create B, and I create another
network request and it's going out for AB.
Does that make sense?
I type B,
now I've got a network
request going out for AB.
Notice that because I apply takeUntil with
(keyPresses) to each network request,
as soon as I type B, that outgoing
network request for A completes.
It fires on completed and
it just stops and it becomes empty, right?
So I've triggered a network request for
A and then I click B and that network
request for A is immediately gonna
complete because now I've pressed a key.
So it's gonna look like ...., and
in just a few more milliseconds
it would've actually gotten us a result,
but instead, [SOUND] it completes.
And then,
we apply concatAll to the stream.
And what happens to that observable that
we completed, with nothing inside of it?
>> Speaker 7: It's gone.
>> Jafar Husain: [SOUND] Right?
We didn't cancel the network request.
I didn't write abort or
removeEventListener or any of that stuff.
I declaratively described the conditions
under which that network
request was to end.
And it was to end, regardless of
whether we got the data or not,
as soon as the next key press happened.
>> Jafar Husain: Very different way of
thinking about asynchronous programming,
all right?
I'm not canceling things, I'm not changing
things, I'm describing declaratively
the conditions under which
I want streams to end.
And so that network request return for
A has now completed.
And now we've got an open
network request for AB.
And eventually when that finishes, right,
concatAll is going to return
the network request for AB.
Because the previous
observable is completed so
it's now on to the second observable.
And we get out the search results for AB.
And that outer observable,
is it ever gonna complete?
Is the searchResultSets observable that
we've created ever gonna complete?
Anybody tell me.
Is it gonna end?
Well, first of all what
is searchResultSets?
It's the stream of all of
the search results for
every search that you
enter into the text box.
That's really what we've done.
We've taken the streams that we had,
which is key presses,
and a function which creates more streams
which is the network request, and
we've combined them together into
one stream, the stream that we want.
Which is the stream of all of the search
results that arrive from the server.
And then at the very bottom,
we for eached over them and
for every search result set that
we get back, which is basically,
it could be an array of search results,
we're just gonna put it on screen.
That's what we're going to do with it.
So let's go over the four steps.
Yeah, question?
>> Speaker 2: Question was, would we ever
want to concatenate the throttled presses
together to pass to getJSON
instead of looking at input.value?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes, we could.
So I'm making stuff easy on myself here.
Now, because at any point I can just
look up the value property of the text
box, that's easy.
But imagine you didn't have access
to the value of the text box.
Imagine all you got was key press signals.
Well, then you'd have to figure out some
way of concatenating them together and
basically doing the job
that the text box does.
Which is like I'm gonna aggregate up what
the current string is in that text box.
And when I get a back press key,
I'm gonna have to remove one.
There is actually a way of doing that.
It's called a scan operator,
which allows you to do exactly that.
To take an observable that's infinite and
aggregate up values over time and
then change them.
We'll get to that later on.
But I mean,
you can get the value of a text box.
So let's not bother,
that's much more complicated.
So let's just do it this way.
But that's a totally valid question.
Yes.
>> Speaker 8: What does retry(3) mean?
>> Jafar Husain: Can I come back to that?
I wanna get the overall structure
first before we come back that.
That is important, but
I wanna come back to it.
I really wanna make sure we go through,
think about things in these four stages
cuz it's gonna be really important for
you when you do your exercises.
What are the streams that I have or
functions that give me streams?
What do I have?
What do I wanna create?
Well, I wanna take the key presses and
I wanna take my ability to issue network
requests and get them as observables.
And I wanna create just a stream of
all the search results that come back
from the server.
Cuz all I'm gonna do with this is I'm
just gonna display them on screen.
I just wish that, think about
this as a process of inspiration.
Wouldn't it be great if I had an event
that just fired every single time
I had search results from the server?
That would be super convenient, right?
Then I could just subscribe to that,
and whenever one came out
I could slap it on screen.
Well, we don't have that but
we can create it.
So first,
it's almost like starting backwards.
Imagine what event you want and
then take a look at the events you have.
And then the hard part is figuring out
how to take the events you have and
combine them together using these
functions, map, reduce, filter,
merge, zip, that I'm gonna be teaching
you, into the event that you want.
And then once you've got
the event that you want,
the stream of data that you want,
all that's left to do is to forEach
over it and do something with the data.
So we're seeing all three stages here
in the sense that we've got keyPresses,
we've got getJSON,
those are the streams and
functions that will give us streams that
we have, that are very easy, we have them.
Then we're using all of the map and
retry and concatAll functions and
takeUntil to combine all the these streams
together into the stream that we want.
Which is the stream of searchResultSets.
And then at the end we're using forEach to
consume the data and put it on the screen.
Does that make sense?